Unsung heroes (#2314)
huggingface/blog: unsung-heroes.md

---
title: "Unsung Heroes of the Hugging Face Hub" 
thumbnail: /blog/assets/unsung_heroes/thumbnail.png
authors:
- user: derek-thomas
---

# Unsung Heroes of the Hugging Face Hub

## Introduction

<div style="background-color: #e6f9e6; padding: 16px 32px; outline: 2px solid; border-radius: 10px;">

> tl;dr The Hugging Face Hub has a number of tools and integrations that are often overlooked that can make it easier to build many types of AI solutions</div>

Author: I like the original for how it flows.

> The Hugging Face Hub boasts over 850K public models, with \~50k new ones added every month, and that just seems to be

Author: I do like boasts. Its really exciting IMO! 850k was unthinkable not too long ago.

> climbing higher and higher. We also offer a Enterprise Hub subscription that

Author: I did want to put its somewhere since our Q2, Q3 are not good. Im not sure a better place. I did like it up front since I expect the rest to be skimmed.

unlocks [compliance](https://huggingface.co/docs/hub/en/storage-regions\#regulatory-and-legal-compliance), [security](https://huggingface.co/docs/hub/en/security\#security),
and [governance](https://huggingface.co/docs/hub/en/enterprise-hub-resource-groups) features, along with additional
compute capacities on inference endpoints for production-level inference and more hardware options for doing demos on
Spaces.

> The Hugging Face Hub allows broad usage since you have diverse hardware, and you can run almost anything you want

Author: You are right its a bit unlike the rest, I do want to give a good Enterprise hub shoutout since are having a pretty rough time in Q2 Q3.

It’s easy to imagine multiple scenarios where this is useful:

* E-commerce platforms that are looking to handle their many products based on descriptions or reported issues
* Law firms and compliance departments who need to comb through legal documents or regulations
* Researchers who have to keep up with new advances and find relevant papers or articles for their needs

I'll be demonstrating this by using a subreddit as my data source and using the Hub to facilitate the rest. There are a
number of ways to implement this. I could put everything in 1 space, but that would be quite messy. Though having too
many components in a solution has its own challenges. Ultimately, **I chose a design that allows me to highlight some of
the unsung heroes on the Hub and demonstrate how you can use them effectively**. The architecture is shown in *Figure 1*
and is fully hosted on Hugging Face in the form of spaces, datasets and webhooks. For accessibility, every feature I'm
using is free, but as you scale, you might want to upgrade.

|![Project Flow](https://huggingface.co/datasets/huggingface/documentation-images/resolve/main/blog/unsung-heros/miro-board.jpeg)|
|:--:|

> |Figure 1: Project Flow [clickable version here](https://miro.com/app/board/uXjVKnOWQZM=/?share_link_id=183806319042)|

Author: I said clickable so they can use the links directly if they want.

> You can see that I'm using [r/bestofredditorupdates](https://www.reddit.com/r/BestofRedditorUpdates/) as my **Data Source**, it has 10-15 new posts a day. I pull from it daily using their API via a [Reddit Application](https://www.reddit.com/prefs/apps) with [PRAW](https://praw.readthedocs.io/en/stable/), and store the results in the **Raw Dataset** ([reddit-tools-HF/dataset-creator-reddit-bestofredditorupdates](https://huggingface.co/datasets/reddit-tools-HF/dataset-creator-reddit-bestofredditorupdates)). This triggers a [webhook](https://huggingface.co/docs/hub/en/webhooks) which triggers the **Data Processing Space** to take action. The **Data Processing Space** will take the **Raw Dataset** and add features to it, namely embeddings by using the **Embedding Model Space** by using a Gradio client. The **Data Processing Space** will then take the process data and store it in the **Processed Dataset** and also build the **Data Explorer** tool. 

Author: Great wording idea here.

| **Data Processing Space** | Adds an embeddings column to Raw Dataset for semantic comparisons | [reddit-tools-HF/processing-bestofredditorupdates](https://huggingface.co/spaces/reddit-tools-HF/processing-bestofredditorupdates) | Shows both the Processing Logs and the Nomic Atlas Map                                         |
| **Embedding Model Space** | Hosts an embedding model | [reddit-tools-HF/nomic-embeddings](https://huggingface.co/spaces/reddit-tools-HF/nomic-embeddings) | Uses [nomic-ai/nomic-embed-text-v1.5](https://huggingface.co/nomic-ai/nomic-embed-text-v1.5)\* |
| **Processed Dataset** | The resulting dataset with the embeddings | [reddit-tools-HF/reddit-bestofredditorupdates-processed](https://huggingface.co/datasets/reddit-tools-HF/reddit-bestofredditorupdates-processed) (dataset) |                                                                                                |
| **Data Explorer** | Visual and text-based semantic search tool | [Nomic Atlas Map](https://atlas.nomic.ai/data/derek2/boru-subreddit-neural-search/map) | Built with [Nomic Atlas](https://atlas.nomic.ai): Powerful filtering and narrowing tools       |

> *There are a few good reasons to use [nomic-ai/nomic-embed-text-v1.5](https://huggingface.co/nomic-ai/nomic-embed-text-v1.5):

Author: You are more formal than I am 😅 Not a bad idea though

blank [docker space](https://huggingface.co/docs/hub/spaces-sdks-docker) that can run an arbitrary docker container with
the Hardware of your choice (a free CPU in my case).

My main pain point is that I want to be able to run 2 very different things in a single space. Most spaces have a single
identity, like [showing off a diffusers model](https://huggingface.co/spaces/stabilityai/stable-diffusion),
or [generating music](https://huggingface.co/spaces/facebook/MusicGen). Consider the **Dataset Creator Space**, I need
to:

* Run some code to pull data from Reddit and store it in **Raw Dataset**
    * This is a mostly invisible process
    * This is run by `main.py`
* Visualize the logs from the above code so I can have a good understanding of what is going on (shown in *Figure 3*)
    * This is run by `app.py`

Note that both of these should run in separate processes. I’ve come across
many [use-cases](https://huggingface.co/spaces/Leaderboard-Organization/leaderboard-backend) that visualizing the logs
is actually really useful and important. It’s a great debugging tool and it's also much more aesthetically pleasing in
scenarios where there isn’t a natural UI.

### Application

> I leverage a Multi-process Docker solution by leveraging the [supervisord](http://supervisord.org) library, which is

Author: Either are fine, I like leveraging since its sounds cooler.

> touted as a process control system. It's a clean way of controlling multiple separate processes. Supervisord lets me do

Reviewer: ```suggestion
a clean way to control multiple separate processes. Supervisord lets me do
```

multiple things in a single container, which is useful in a Docker Space. Note that Spaces only allows you to expose a
single port, so that might influence what solutions you consider.

Installing Supervisor is quite easy as it's a python package.

```py
pip install supervisor
```

You need to write a `supervisord.conf` file to specify your configuration. You can see my whole example
here: [supervisord.conf](https://huggingface.co/spaces/reddit-tools-HF/dataset-creator-reddit-bestofredditorupdates/blob/main/supervisord.conf).
It's pretty self explanatory. Note I don’t want the logs from `program:app` because `app.py` is just there to visualize
logs, not create them, so I route them to `/dev/null`.

```
[supervisord]
nodaemon=true

[program:main]
command=python main.py
stdout_logfile=/dev/stdout
stdout_logfile_maxbytes=0
stderr_logfile=/dev/stderr
stderr_logfile_maxbytes=0
autostart=true

> # autorestart=true

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

[program:app]
command=python app.py
stdout_logfile=/dev/null
stdout_logfile_maxbytes=0
stderr_logfile=/dev/stderr
stderr_logfile_maxbytes=0
autostart=true
autorestart=true
```

Lastly we need to start our `supervisord.conf` to actually run our 2 processes. In my [Dockerfile](https://huggingface.co/spaces/reddit-tools-HF/dataset-creator-reddit-bestofredditorupdates/blob/main/Dockerfile) I simply run:

```
CMD ["supervisord", "-c", "supervisord.conf"]
```

## Gradio API

> ### Introduction
> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

In the **Data Processing Space** I need embeddings for the posts, this presents a challenge if I abstract the embedding
model in another space. How do I call it?

When you build a [Gradio app](https://www.gradio.app), by default you can treat any interaction as an API call. This

> means all those [cool spaces](https://huggingface.co/spaces) on the hub have an API associated with them (Spaces allows

Reviewer: ```suggestion
means all those [cool spaces](https://huggingface.co/spaces) on the Hub have an API associated with them (Spaces allows
```

### Application

I used the client in my **Data Processing Space** to get embeddings from the nomic model deployed in the **Embedding
Model Space**. It was used in
this [utilities.py](https://huggingface.co/spaces/reddit-tools-HF/processing-bestofredditorupdates/blob/main/src/utilities.py)
file, I’ve extrapolated the relevant parts below:

```py
from gradio_client import Client

# Define the Client
client = Client("reddit-tools-HF/nomic-embeddings")

# Create an easy to use function (originally applied to a dataframe)
def update_embeddings(content, client):
    # Note that the embedding model requires you to add the relevant prefix
    embedding = client.predict('search_document: ' + content, api_name="/embed")
    return np.array(embedding)

# Consume 
final_embedding = update_embeddings(content=row['content'], client=client)
```

<br>
<div style="background-color: #e6f9e6; padding: 16px 32px; outline: 2px solid; border-radius: 10px;">
There is even a really cool <a href="https://huggingface.co/posts/abidlabs/216848389441212">API recorder</a> now which lets you use the GUI but records each step as an API interaction.
</div>

## Webhooks

> ### Introduction
> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

|![Webhooks](https://miro.medium.com/v2/resize:fit:1400/format:webp/1*D0JykQxrL0IpYCZ6LH0CiA.png)|
|:--:|
|Figure 4: Project Webhooks [^1]|

[Webhooks](https://huggingface.co/docs/hub/en/webhooks) are a foundation for MLOps-related features. They allow you to
listen for new changes on specific repos or to all repos belonging to a particular set of users/organizations (not just
your repos, but any repo).

> You can use them to auto-convert models, build community bots, or build CI/CD for your models, datasets, and Spaces, and

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can use them to auto-convert models, build community bots, build CI/CD for your models, datasets, and Spaces, and
```

much more!

### Application

In my use-case I wanted to rebuild the **Processed Dataset** whenever I update the **Raw Dataset**. You can see

> the [full code here](https://huggingface.co/spaces/reddit-tools-HF/processing-bestofredditorupdates/blob/main/app.py\#L73-L139).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
the [full code here](https://huggingface.co/spaces/reddit-tools-HF/processing-bestofredditorupdates/blob/main/app.py#L73-L139).
```

To do this I need to add a webhook that triggers on the **Raw Dataset** updates and to send it’s payload to the **Data

> Processing Space**. There are multiple types of updates that can happen, some might be on other branches, or in outside
> of the repo like the discussions. My criteria is when the  `README.md` is changed along with another file (the data that

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Processing Space**. There are multiple types of updates that can happen, some might be on other branches, or in the discussions tab. My criteria is to trigger when both the `README.md` file and another file are updated
```

> is updated) on the main branch of the repo. This is because of what is changed in the commit that Im looking for,
> like [here](https://huggingface.co/api/datasets/reddit-tools-HF/dataset-creator-reddit-bestofredditorupdates/compare/984759c734ab6d01c43739ac7eb46870eacf304b..adcc0f523c8fabe0f04448139fc7f72befa5428e?raw=true):

Reviewer: ```suggestion
on the main branch of the repo, because that's what changes when a new commit is pushed to the dataset ([here's an example](https://huggingface.co/api/datasets/reddit-tools-HF/dataset-creator-reddit-bestofredditorupdates/compare/984759c734ab6d01c43739ac7eb46870eacf304b..adcc0f523c8fabe0f04448139fc7f72befa5428e?raw=true)).
```

```
# Commit cleaned up for readability
T 1807	M	README.md
T 52836295	M	data/train-00000-of-00001.parquet
```

> 

Reviewer: Maybe not necessary to present inline.

<div style="background-color: #e6f9e6; padding: 16px 32px; outline: 2px solid; border-radius: 10px;">
You will need to carefully decide what your criteria is  as you adapt this to your use-case
</div>

First you will need to create your webhook in your settings. It's best to

> follow [this guide](https://huggingface.co/docs/hub/en/webhooks\#create-your-webhook) on how to create a webhook, make

Reviewer: ```suggestion
follow [this guide](https://huggingface.co/docs/hub/en/webhooks#create-your-webhook) on how to create a webhook, make
```

sure to use consistent endpoint names (`/dataset_repo` in my case). Also note the webhook url is the *Direct URL*
with `/webhooks` appended. The *Direct URL* can be found by clicking the 3 dots above the space and

> selecting `Embed this Space`. I also set a [webhook secret](https://huggingface.co/docs/hub/en/webhooks\#webhook-secret)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
selecting `Embed this Space`. I also set a [webhook secret](https://huggingface.co/docs/hub/en/webhooks#webhook-secret)
```

in the **Data Processing Space** so it’s secure.

<div style="background-color: #e6f9e6; padding: 16px 32px; outline: 2px solid; border-radius: 10px;">
    <p>Also note the webhook url is the <em>Direct URL</em> with <code>/webhooks</code> appended. The <em>Direct URL</em> can be found by clicking the 3 dots above the space and selecting <code>Embed this Space</code>. I also set a <a href="https://huggingface.co/docs/hub/en/webhooks#webhook-secret">webhook secret</a> in the <strong>Data Processing Space</strong> so it’s secure.</p>

> </div>

Reviewer: This paragraph is repeated.

Here is what my webhook creation input looks like. Just don’t tell anyone my secret 😉.

Target Repositories: `datasets/reddit-tools-HF/dataset-creator-reddit-bestofredditorupdates`

Webhook URL: `https://reddit-tools-hf-processing-bestofredditorupdates.hf.space/webhooks/dataset_repo`

Secret (optional): `Float-like-a-butterfly`

Next you will need to consume your webhook in your space. To do this I'll discuss:

1. How to setup the webhook server  
2. How to selectively trigger only the updates we care about   
   1. It must be a `repo` change  
   2. It must be on the main branch: `refs/heads/main`  
   3. It must be an update with not just the `README.md` changing

#### How to setup the webhook server

First we need to consume the payload. We have a convenient way

> to [consume a webhook payload](https://huggingface.co/docs/huggingface\_hub/main/en/guides/webhooks\#custom-server)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
to [consume a webhook payload](https://huggingface.co/docs/huggingface_hub/main/en/guides/webhooks#custom-server)
```

Please, double check all the escaped characters introduced when copying from the doc.

> built into the [huggingface\_hub](https://huggingface.co/docs/huggingface\_hub/index) library. You can see that I

Reviewer: ```suggestion
built into the [huggingface_hub](https://huggingface.co/docs/huggingface_hub/index) library. You can see that I
```

> use `@app.add_webhook` to define an endpoint that matches what I did upon webhook creation. Then I define my function

Reviewer: ```suggestion
use `@app.add_webhook` to define an endpoint that matches what I did upon webhook creation. Then I define my function.
```

# FILTER 3: Dont trigger if there are only README updates
try:
    commit_files_url = f"""{payload.repo.url.api}/compare/{payload.updatedRefs[0].oldSha}..{payload.updatedRefs[0].newSha}?raw=true"""
    response_text = get_session.get(commit_files_url, headers=build_hf_headers()).text
    logger.info(f"Git Compare URl: {commit_files_url}")

    # Splitting the output into lines
    file_lines = response_text.split('\n')

    # Filtering the lines to find file changes
    changed_files = [line.split('\t')[-1] for line in file_lines if line.strip()]
    logger.info(f"Changed files: {changed_files}")

    # Checking if only README.md has been changed
    if all('README.md' in file for file in changed_files):
        response_content = "No task scheduled: its a README only update."
        logger.info(response_content)
        return Response(response_content, status_code=status.HTTP_200_OK)
except Exception as e:
    logger.error(f"{str(e)}")
    response_content = "Unexpected issue :'("
    logger.info(response_content)
    return Response(response_content, status_code=status.HTTP_501_NOT_IMPLEMENTED)
```

## Nomic Atlas

> ### Introduction
> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

One of the common pain points we see with customers/partners is that data understanding and collaboration are
challenging. Data understanding is often the first step to solving any AI use-case. My favorite way to do that is
through visualization, and often I don’t feel I have great tools for that when it comes to semantic data. I was
absolutely delighted to discover [Nomic Atlas](https://docs.nomic.ai/index.html). It allows me to have a number of key
features for data exploration:

* Semantic Search with [nomic-ai/nomic-embed-text-v1.5](https://huggingface.co/nomic-ai/nomic-embed-text-v1.5) (in beta
  now)

> * Feature rich filtering

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Feature-rich filtering
```

* Keyword search

> * Lasso Search (I can draw boundaries\!\!)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Lasso Search (I can draw boundaries!!)
```

### Application

I built the nomic Atlas in the **Data Processing Space**. In the flow I have already built the **Processed Dataset** and
the only thing left is to visualize it. You can see how I build with nomic

> in [build\_nomic.py](https://huggingface.co/spaces/reddit-tools-HF/processing-bestofredditorupdates/blob/main/src/build\_nomic.py).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
in [build_nomic.py](https://huggingface.co/spaces/reddit-tools-HF/processing-bestofredditorupdates/blob/main/src/build_nomic.py).
```

> As before Ill extrapolate the relevant parts for this blog:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
As before, I'll extrapolate the relevant parts for this blog:
```

risk of containing Child Sexual Abuse Material (CSAM), especially content that has a high prevalence of uncurated sexual
material.

To assess those risks in the context of this dataset curation effort, we can start by looking at the process through
which the source data is collated. The original stories (before being aggregated) go through a moderator, then the
update is often in a subreddit where there is a moderator. On occasion the update gets uploaded to the original poster’s
profile. The final version gets uploaded to [r/bestofredditorupdates](https://www.reddit.com/r/BestofRedditorUpdates/)
which has strict moderation. They are strict since they have more risks of brigading. All that to say there are at least
2 moderation steps, usually 3 with one being well known as strict.

At the time of writing this there were 69 stories labeled NSFW. Of those, none of them have CSAM material as I manually
checked them. I have also gated the datasets containing NFAA material. To make the nomic visualization more accessible
I’m making a filtered dataset upon atlas creation by removing posts containing content with “NSFW” in the dataframe.

> ## References

Reviewer: Maybe a short conclusion as well, inviting people to try on other tasks?

Author: Thats a good idea.
